[Music]
ten first aid mistakes explained by a
professional when someone's in danger of
course people rushed to help but even if
these good Samaritans mean well and are
being very brave and selfless they can
end up putting the victim and even more
danger if they don't know how to
properly administer first aid that's why
it's crucial to avoid these 10 common
and very dangerous mistakes and learn
what you should do instead be sure to
click that subscribe button and turn on
post notifications to join the bright
side of life
number 10 tilting your head back during
a nosebleed nosebleeds can be common
since there's so many blood vessels in
the nose that are highly sensitive to
things like dry air and well fingers
there are some situations where
nosebleeds are caused by an underlying
health issue in which case you'd need to
seek advice from a medical professional
no matter what the reason we've all been
told to tilt our head back whenever we
have a nosebleed but it's high time to
ditch this old habit tilting your head
back can make the blood travel from your
nose to your throat which means you
could find yourself choking on or
swallowing blood the best thing to do
instead is to apply steady pressure to
the bridge of your nose for at least 20
minutes you'll have to breathe through
your mouth this whole time but you'll
safely stop the bleeding number 9
forcing a fainted person to sit up when
someone faints our immediate course of
action is to try to set them up
especially when shaking them doesn't
seem to be helping instead of all that
always start by checking their breathing
and pulse
if that's all good leave them on the
ground but raise their legs about 12
inches off the floor loosen any
restrictive clothing as well once they
regain consciousness don't rush to help
them back up as this can just cause them
to faint again
number eight putting heat on a sprain or
fracture I should be used for acute
situations like suddenly spraining your
ankle heat is for chronic conditions
like back pain heat on a sprain or
fracture only increases blood flow and
leads to more swelling the way to go for
these types of injuries is always to ice
it at first the ice will help reduce any
swelling bruising and muscle spasms
never place an ice pack directly on your
skin and be sure to leave it on for at
least 20 minutes number seven trying to
remove debris from your body if you step
on some glass for example your gut
reaction will be to pull those shards
out of your skin yourself but if the
tool you use isn't sterile or if you
underestimate how deep the wound is you
risk getting an infection and doing
further damage so make sure you're using
a clean sterile tool or leave it in the
hands and professionals when it comes to
debris in your eye it's best to close
your eye put a piece of gauze over it
and head to the hospital number six
treating a burn too quickly
the first step to treating a burn is to
run it under cool water but a common
mistake is to just do it for a few
seconds or a couple of minutes tops
if the water is to actually help the
skin you need to hold the burn under it
for at least 20 minutes
the heat from the burn can go deep
across several layers of skin so even if
your skin is cool on the surface the
heat can still be trapped underneath
which is why you need to expose it to
cool water for such a long time
number five going straight into the
Heimlich maneuver for choking victims
the Red Cross has updated their
guidelines on how to give first aid -
choking victims so instead of going
straight for the Heimlich maneuver
here's what you're supposed to do
instead
stand behind the victim lean them
forward and give their back five quick
blows with the heel of your hand only if
that doesn't work at first can you
follow it up with the Heimlich maneuver
administer five quick abdominal thrusts
and keep doing it until the Airways
unobstructed number four putting
something in a seizing person's mouth in
a panic induced state at seeing someone
having a seizure a lot of people
immediately try to block the person's
mouth for fear of the victim biting
their own tongue this is actually
dangerous for the victim and for the
person trying to help another mistake is
trying to restrain the person's
movements the thing to do instead is to
turn the person over onto their side
which will help them breathe easier also
clear out the area of any dangerous
objects the victim could hurt themselves
on most seizures only lasts no more than
five minutes so you have to stay calm if
it goes past that however it's time to
call for help
number three prioritizing mouth-to-mouth
resuscitation for heart attack victims
when it comes to cardiac conditions like
a heart attack the first step is to
always dial emergency medical services
then administer chest compressions or
CPR according to the American Heart
Association CPR can double or even
triple the chances of someone survival
even if the victim isn't breathing and
there isn't a heartbeat the body has
enough oxygen that you can help it
circulate thanks to CPR a common mistake
is to think that mouth-to-mouth
resuscitation is more important than
chest compressions but that's not the
case according to the guidelines for CPR
set by the American Heart Association so
now you know that if a person near you
collapses from a cardiac condition focus
on chest compressions and don't go near
their face number two not knowing what
you're doing again
good Samaritans mean well when it comes
to helping someone in an emergency
situation but if you don't know how to
for instance administer CPR or the
Heimlich maneuver correctly you can end
up doing more harm than good for example
someone might try to give CPR and forget
that you have to tilt the victims head
back to keep the airway open
that can be a very dangerous blunder
that's why the first line of action in
all serious first-aid situations is to
call for help and let a professional
guide you through what you need to do
number one using a tourniquet for a
bleeding wound yes tourniquets can stop
a person from bleeding but it's not a
fix-all solution for any type of wound
if someone has a deep wound in their arm
or leg applying a tourniquet can stop
the blood flow to the entire limb which
can actually starve the tissues of
oxygen and possibly lead to amputation
using a tourniquet should never be the
first choice you know by now that your
first course of action should be to call
for an ambulance while they're on their
way apply downward pressure with your
hands onto a major wound that's bleeding
out if you have sterile gauze then use
it so that you don't transfer bacteria
from your hands to the wound
this method can even stop bleeding from
a large vein or artery once the bleeding
has stopped
wrap the wound securely with gauze only
use a tourniquet if after all this
they're still uncontrolled bleeding but
by this time the paramedic should be
closed have you ever had to administer
first aid to someone let us know in the
comments below don't forget to give this
video a like share it with your friends
and click subscribe to stay on the
bright side
you